When properly implemented and managed with
the right resources and good leadership with involvement of the right stakeholders,
even the most complex data science initiatives can go well.
On the other hand, I've seen data science projects challenged because
leaders and stakeholders have unreasonable expectations.
Enlisting the support of key stakeholders and managing expectations
appropriately are key to the success of a data science initiative.
Who, are key stakeholders?
Senior leadership should nearly always be included as a key stakeholder.
It's especially important to engage the senior leader,
generally the CEO, in backing
your initiative to bring success to your data science project.
In larger organizations, a business unit head or functional head,
may serve as the senior leader in place of the CEO.
Functional area representatives should also be included as stakeholders.
A data science project focused on marketing or finance, for example,
will need insights from specialists in those areas in order to deliver value.
Technical area representatives, professionals from data,
DevOps or engineering also tend to be critical,
especially if data and engineering needs will require their buy-in.
Finally, the voice of the customer should be represented whether by proxy through
the marketing department or through a specialized customer or client advisory group.